one what's happening brother how are you
good to be here good to have you I have
enjoyed your restaurant many times my
favourite steak restaurant and all of
Los Angeles thank you
it's one of the reasons why I wanted to
bring you in here because this is a
really crazy time for restaurants and I
mean that's basically that that's the
gist of it this is a crazy time
it's bananas it's absolutely crazy
trying to just get a handle on it it's
just overwhelming so for me it's just
head down and cook try to help people
you know that are in need and and then
we'll figure it out later
well I know you've been doing a lot of
cooking for first responders and for
hospitals and like what have you been
doing with your time now that this is
well it really first started where
basically everything just everybody was
just staring at each other and saying
what what is going on what's happening
and I had I didn't lay off any of my
employees and it's all happening
everybody else is closing up shop and
you know I'm just overwhelmed as a
business owner what am I gonna do and I
actually I had my GM come up to me and
you know because I'm trying to figure it
out everybody's that's what's gonna
happen my GM came up to me and she says
hey listen you know we're with you we
know you didn't create the corner virus
you know you do what you have to do and
we know your hearts in the right place
and I was just like I just like kind of
just let out a breath then I'm like okay
well I appreciate you saying that and
then I was his head down get down to
business with it and we had a cutback
90% of the staff and we were just like
just cook didn't know who we're gonna
who's gonna buy it or anything it was
just crazy so what'd you just tell her
but it's the the steakhouse is called
APL you know it's in LA in what is that
like the theater district what does that
call this yes you're a part of Hollywood
Hollywood and Vine yeah and it's right
next to the Pantages Theatre which we
and what's ironic was it was literally
when they closed down all the
restaurants was the gonna be the night
of Hamilton premiering which is a big
deal for us as a business and you know
all of a sudden it's like it stops
yeah we I went to your place right after
we saw something it was oh it was frozen
yeah yeah we went to see frozen and that
was the last time I was at your place
it's it's got to be a very strange think
this has never happened before and one
of the things that we've talked about a
lot on this podcast is what's so
devastating about this is there's a lot
of people that have lost lost businesses
in the past because markets changed and
because maybe they didn't do what they
could have done or work as hard as they
could have worked but for so many small
businesses and restaurants and bars
they've been doing the best work they've
ever been able to do they're putting in
the hours they're showing up they're
putting out these amazing meals and then
because of nothing that's their fault it
just gets shut off just gets shut off
it's crazy and without any real
understanding of how long it's gonna
take or when when you're gonna I mean we
just had a conversation I'm saying we
should just talk about this on air
because we're just talking in the green
room yet like there's no clear
indication when you'll be able to go
back to work and serve food to the
general public and what that's gonna
look like I know it's it's it's the
unknown but how I'm investing my time
how a lot of other chef's restaurant
tours are investing their time is trying
to serve take out to the public but also
doing charitable and things to provide
for first line you know frontline you
know the fianc and one of the things is
you know Jimmy Kimmel and I teamed up to
for every meal that we prepare we donate
a meal to st. Joseph's Center so that
was the first thing because for our
attitude was is like we want to help
people and let them know that they're
cared about and then the other thing is
to really just keep even just the five
people working so because we didn't even
know if people are going to order so we
jumped into it like that and then these
services such as frontline LA which
comes in and brings it's like the glue
between us in the hospitals and we we
prepare
meals for 150 mills at a time for the
hospital workers and do you guys package
them up and then have them delivered to
the hospital yeah exactly I mean so
we'll just sit there they'll say hey we
have a need for this particular hospital
you know Hollywood Presbyterian okay
great
150 people we package up the meals how
do you do that do they order off a menu
or do you just prepare know enough do
you think - don't join we prepare
healthy things things that they would
appreciate and then also sometimes I
just serve comfort items so sometimes
I'll do meatloaf gravy and mashed
potatoes because you know if they're
just all healthy sometimes they just
need a little bit more of like you know
warmth and like you can kind of like
pull in it's a weird word comfort food
you know it is but that's what's
happening it makes it but it works like
the comfort like when you say macaroni
and cheese comfort food yeah it is
that's what people are gravitating
towards that's where my menu is right
now it's all comfort food & BBQ really
yeah so do you is that because that's
what people were asking for well that's
my cooked steaks right that's my read on
the market you know I had experienced a
similar thing where things shut down and
people needed help and that was around
you know during 9/11 and you know our
attitude was is like how can we help
people those you know those in need and
and really comfort food really kind of
just blossomed out of that so when
you're doing right so you're doing
takeout as well and how does that work
do they order online or do they call up
like how's that like we prefer curbside
as opposed to just doing post meets and
GrubHub
you know people can do that and so we'll
get people to come to livery yeah let's
get to that because how does that work
post mates and GrubHub
is that good for your business is that
is it less good than people ordering
directly from you what kind of that work
well it's great for a business because
it gives us a greater range and we
really can't deliver so it gives us an
opportunity so it's a whole nother
market but you know they charge a
backend fee on it so we have to up
charge it a bit and you know for us we'd
prefer just to kind of sell directly to
the customer curbside which would do a
good clip of - it's probably about half
and half so like what if you had a guess
like what's the capacity is as far as
like for your business is like
full-on wide-open where people can come
and sit down versus now look how much is
it deteriorated it's it's maybe 10 15
percent of did the business squad - yeah
and that's why I'm just focusing on like
I just got to keep moving that's how I'm
emotionally getting through this thing
and also keeping the business going is
basically just cook for people that are
in need you know focus on the hospitals
and then and the neighbourhood just
right around us so it's tough spot and
you have obviously you have a lot of
friends that are in the restaurant bill
yes and so what is talk all the time
what's the general feeling like what is
uh what's the the temperature like how's
everybody dealing with this you know
first of all knowing that a good number
of us are not gonna be around because
just even figuring out all the rules and
the laws that are gonna happen around
this thing or unfolding they're just
very hard to read and get a clear
understanding of what's happening so a
lot of people just don't know the
unknown you know landlords you know
we're deferring rent but at the same
time you know they're not accepting of
that so we're like on the hook and we
don't even really know where we're gonna
end up with it even just the PPP loans
what is PPP it's the Paycheck protection
program and that's really a
government-funded assistance to supply
restaurants and all businesses I think
of all the loans given out I think only
5% of all the ones given out were
actually to restaurants so they get they
give you a chunk of money essentially
that covers eight weeks of payroll and
also a portion of that 420 that's
seventy five percent has to be spent on
payroll covers for eight weeks and then
the other 25% is for rent and utilities
so it's like an eight week lifeline so
and so far how long has it been now
we're looking at like six weeks of
lockdown so far or something like that
like it feels like longer right it's got
to be a little bit longer like for me
mmm feels it probably is that I don't
even have a concept of time I'm working
so hard
it's just me and four other people and
two are in the front and two are with me
in the kitchen we're doing dishes we're
cooking we're cleaning we're doing
everything I mean it's a great sense of
you know what you know accomplishment it
look I got a an email from a nurse
thanking us for the healthy meal that we
prepared for them and that makes it
worth it but you know like for me I'm
actually like inspired and just kicking
it into high gear I'm not gonna like
just Waller in it I'm just gonna keep
working head down to what I do and just
hope at the end of the day at the end of
day people have to eat so the world is
gonna be different
you know probably not going to be the
same at all in terms of from my business
but what choice do I have
yes sure till cliff CBD drink delicious
oh yeah sorry for people listen to me
slurp so when you're operating at ten
percent capacity
obviously this is not sustainable ten
percent of your business is not
sustainable it's right just because
operating costs and all the above and
then you're obviously in a very
high-profile area which must be
extraordinary rent yeah
we're just not paying the rent you know
we're just pushing it off we can't we
don't have the money for it so we'll
have to work it out you look very
stressed out I don't see I've never seen
you like this every time I've seen you
with a big smile whenever I see you at
your restaurant it's always smiling I
found out you know it's just it's crazy
I found out about your restaurant online
I was just googling new places to go for
dinner and I don't know maybe a couple
years ago and I was googling steak
houses and then I saw that you
specialize in dry-aged steaks and I have
steak that you cooked once that was more
than a year dry-aged was so it's it was
delicious
but it was really weird and he's weird
it's a different anything like a regular
steak it tastes like boy it's like a
different animal it's like you're eating
something you know some exotic animal
and that's what I'd like to do I mean
you know as more aged doesn't
necessarily mean better but you know
it's just different and that's you know
for me as a chef you know I call my
dried room an environmental chamber
I think that's yeah there's a picture on
Instagram of me and Adam in the basement
that fucking meat locker it mate room
that you've got and it's it's for people
that have never been to a dry aging room
it's very odd there's fans blown around
everything's a very specific temperature
you've got all these different things
labeled as far as like what date it was
put in there and for no one for people
who haven't seen dry aging it's very odd
to because you're like hey what is wrong
with that meat yeah exactly the outside
crust of it yet the here's a photo of it
folks you can see it in the background
of the it's not working so for folks you
could see it in the background the meat
has like a black crust to it and then
you slice that crust off what do you do
with the crust get rid of it but is it
edible mmm it's not enjoyable what about
for dogs I want to give something a dog
I wouldn't eat myself Wow
what's that do eat dog food no you feed
your dog dog food I don't have a dog I
wish I have a dog and he eats dog food
yeah I love him to death but he eats he
actually eats ground elk but mixed in
with regular dog even that I mean it
gets a white ash which is almost like uh
I call it a there's a friendly oxidation
I referred to it in the whole process
okay is that white ash like the same as
you get on outside of salami it's like
that it's part of it there it's a mold
and the whole concept behind dry aging
it's based on three things it's some air
velocity temperature and humidity air
velocity yes and it's really important I
like to you know when I teach people
about dry aging it's like if you're on a
beach in Jamaica and there was no wind
and you just start getting sweat and
you're just uncomfortable but then if
trade winds went through it would have
at the same temperature to evaporate the
water off your skin so what we're trying
to do is
we're trying to at the right ratio
evaporate the water off the surface so
it doesn't get like a smelly stinky bad
mold and dehydrated slowly what it does
is it concentrates the flavor it
transforms the amino acids into a whole
different compound and changes the
flavor altogether and then also enzymes
within the meat through the process of
rigor mortis it breaks down so it
becomes more tender so you get flavor
enhancement you get tenderization and it
just it just blows it away so what does
it do to the amino acids it transforms
it into a whole nother compound it's
like a flavor it's it's like when we
talk have you ever heard of like concept
of like my gut reaction yes but I don't
know what it means anymore a really
expression but I forgot what I mean yeah
the my reaction is basically like when
you're cooking something when ends a
pass pellet is it mylar no ma I ll Aard
right my lord oh my lord
okay I said my art okay that's what I
know is so you know when your ever your
browning are you're doing different
things at different rates amino acids
transform into different things and you
get different flavor compounds and
that's really what happens you know with
meat you know so if I dry-aged you have
to handle dry aged meat a lot
differently you can't go on it's like
okay I'm gonna slow cook this one says
triage because it just it develops a
really nasty kind of like funky flavor
but if you cook it under high heat like
really aggressive like that's why you
have Steakhouse broilers there's
something about that browning of that
dry aged meat that transforms that just
like awakens your senses that's
interesting so you don't slow cooked
dried meat no I don't it gives a livery
it's almost like a livery so yeah I
don't even if anybody wants dry aged
above medium I try to talk about how
cook it any way you want
but if you start cooking past medium
it's almost like you know seeing someone
like transform like it just ages like
when you cook it a long time it just
ages and just turns into something else
is this one well-done steak are
offensive you should go and eat burger
can you monsters
what's wrong with you when I hear when I
go to dinner with someone they order
well-done steak I just cringe like who
am i eating yes it's a cultural thing I
noticed through with some people like
they just want to cook but if they want
a well-done steak then I recommend the
wet aged steak to do well done because
you know at least you know you have a
fighting chance for some type of flavor
then but it's really weird like why are
you eating steak yeah yep
you know it's true it's true it's just
that's for me you know for everybody
it's a criminal criminal act you're
wasting a piece of me true I kind of
like I kind of looked the other way I
mean what do you want catch up with that
yeah it's painful for me yeah that's
painful I mean some people grew up
eating well-done steak and that's how
they like it
Joey Diaz eats medium well medium well
what are you doing why it just doesn't
taste as good mm-hmm and it's also
there's an art to the perfect
temperature right what's the perfect
internal temperature of a medium-rare
steak would you two be like 135 or
something mmm no it's it's a bit less
but it's not necessarily the temperature
it's kind of like how you get there okay
let me explain that to you so okay I
have this method where particularly for
thicker steaks where I'll cook it I
start the cooking and then I get it to
about 105 degrees and then I allow it to
rest at 105 and when it's up happening
is is I call them at that just like
tempering of the meat and it basically
it starts transmitting the temperature
in towards the center and then I put it
back in again
and then it will ill heat up the
temperature if you like take it I would
say from medium-rare even though like on
many logs will say okay 120 125 is rare
but it's not you know for me if you're
gonna do that method a solid medium-rare
will be about 120 really yeah so why do
they think 120 is rare I don't really
understand that exactly you know they'll
get there I think they're overshooting
it particularly for me it's not rare
like rare is is is 110 using the method
that I use now different people have
different methods
which is really what's fascinating about
cooking meat I ate it a couple times of
eating at bazaar meats in Vegas which is
a fantastic right yes fantastic it's an
amazing place to well you walk in there
it's just visually it's really
interesting because they have these
grills with live logs I mean they take
not live obviously but they take long
that's their cooking all over fire and
they have these grates these grill
grates that rise and lower and you know
you could see how they're doing it when
you walk in the door guys you're walking
to your table you're passing by yeah and
this method of this idea of cooking over
logs like cooking over fire some people
prefer that and then some people like
those crazy broilers where their gas but
the broiler it's on top yes it's ready
can and it's lowering down exactly what
is the is there a difference and why it
really comes down to what your taste
preference is okay for me like where I'm
at right now dry aged without any type
of smoker wood is more preferable
because I really want to taste the dry
aged when you start getting into the
wood fire cooking and your burning logs
that aren't burnt out I like to cook
basically my wood down to charcoal like
to ash so that it's cleaner okay so then
you really taste the meat when you start
you know burning on unburnt fuel
you know belongs themselves it has like
these creosote and different flavor
compounds that will get on the meat and
it's just kind of just like coats your
palate so for joint I like that from a
wet aged beef okay but for the dry aged
I really like cleaner I like the
steakhouse broiler I like using a
plancha you know and that's just like a
heated piece of steel it's like you can
do that in your home with the cast iron
okay so it's called a plunge plancha you
know it's just kind of like this flat
sheet of Steel mm-hmm and it's all about
crust development and surface contacts
so like I like to cut the steaks on a
saw so it's a perfect line and it's all
about contact direct with the surface
it's about the Browning of the meat you
know if you're going to get in there and
you're gonna cook over
live would like that he's doing it
obviously right because he's amazing but
you know when you raise and lower the
shelf like I was saying how I arrest it
like you can start on the higher higher
level of the heat and then you bring it
up higher the actual grill higher and
it's actually resting while still
getting like the tickle of of heat up
there the tickle of heat yeah so I
imagine it like so
the flames won't actually touch the meat
it kind of tickles it so it's kind of
like it kind of wisps at the bottom of
the meat and so the way he's doing it at
bizarre meats he's using wet aged steaks
because that's how you would cook over
over that kind of I don't know if he's
doing it that's my personal preference I
mean I just do some aging it does do
some aging I believe over there so but
it's it's just I've watched youtube
videos and how to cook the perfect steak
you can watch three different videos in
three different chefs and there's three
different methods you know like well the
thing about dry aging though I mean all
dry aging is not created equal I call an
environmental chamber so think about it
like making cheese in France you say hey
i order goat cheese and you think you'd
get one type of goat cheese across the
line I'm creating an environment just
like a cheese maker
okay that's unique to my own I actually
have the culture from 1516 years ago
that I've traveled with put hold on you
put culture so yeah I've like a method I
basically take meat that has been aged
and I bring those spores if you will
from that aging meat because you know
there's a mold on it it's a friendly
mold and it's a friendly roll yeah I
like it I don't know I don't want to
like you know turn people off to it
because this is but I didn't know that
you brought your own mold yeah so I just
figured you just let it dry aged it's
not as it's not as simple as that for me
like it's each environment again so I
get away from like someone can turn
around and say like my dry aged is
incredibly clean at a hundred hundred
days 120 days because I get there slowly
my temperatures very low I like to you
know try age of 32 to 35 degrees I like
a high humidity so I don't dehydrate the
meat too soon I like 85% so
times a little bit lower if I want to
pull it really depends you know so when
you sit a fan's so when you say the cult
like how are you bringing this culture
and how do you get it to interact with
me I basically take I take pieces from
the previous you know dry-aged room and
I bring it to that and so I put it up by
the fan and it will circulate spores you
put it by the fan like how do you do it
what is a fan in in in a cooler and it's
blowing around it's like blowing the so
will blow the the spores around the room
so my dry-aged has a unique flavor in my
try you know some great guys who like
mass purveyors and the Bronx which is
these guys like my heroes you know
they taught me practically dry-aging
they have their own flavor so they're
dry aged tastes different you know Pat
LaFrieda is another New York guy does
amazing dry aged beef as well you know
his has a different flavor so you know
for me that's why I take a lot of pride
even though it's not the most
cost-effective thing to carry you know a
hundred thousand dollars in inventory
but it gives me unique flavor profile
that is my unique selling point for my
restaurant so you have these pieces so
like those steaks that we saw in that
photograph you take one of those
dry-aged steaks when it's ready and then
you would trim the pieces off then you
use those pieces those darkened pieces
it just has the spores on it and that
would how do you know how much to put in
there up in as much as I can you know
I'm really I don't want it to like clean
clean and there I want it to be an
environment so it's like a cave and you
know I'll put a couple of trays in and
then I'm I'm very tactile so I'll touch
the meat and I'll feel it and you know
I'll taste it I'll see where we're at
I'm always cutting into a steak it's
like a lot like you say you taste it you
cook it
yeah like I'll cut off a piece like how
are we looking at 30 days how we looking
at 50 days so each room is different
because you know I had tried room in
Vegas and we had you know ceilings that
were 3035 feet a lot of circulating air
it was just it was just like had a
different flavor profile we were able to
age 150 days and that was like our sweet
spot okay and then here in in Hollywood
it's a lot less of a lower ceiling it
circulates differently it's just you
have to really kind of taste it's not
just like hey I've dry aged or you go to
the supermarket it's like oh you sell
dry aged okay great I'll take it and if
you think that's what it tastes like
it's a good indicator of what it is but
if you really want to get you know like
down to it you know each triage can
taste a lot different that's so that's
really weird so it's it's very
experimental in a lot of ways it's
constantly moving I wanted to take you
to dial it in well when I first did it
it was really by mistake particularly
the extended age because you just
weren't selling the meat so I had a
couple of Peet a lot of pieces like like
left you know back for a long time and
you know I was like I take the cut into
when I taste this like whoa I mean this
is incredible and I was talking to the
old school guys who drives like oh
you're wasting your money
nobody wants steak over 42 days you know
it's just eat hydrating.what I think no
I think I'm onto something you know
there's there's a big difference here in
the flavor and as you know we would see
like a huge difference to jump into
flavor and like good quality not like
the funky stuff like the the full year
that like that's another level that's
very good you say funky and I want to
say I just want to clarify to people it
is delicious it is delicious but it's
unusual it's like you're eating
something from Africa you see some
unusual kudu meters in some strange game
yeah it's got you only want to you don't
want to eat too much like people want
like a whole steak I'm like no you just
want to slices of it
savor it like a fine wine understand
that get to know it but don't like
hunker down on it how come you don't
want people to hunker down on it because
sometimes too much of a good thing is
not good okay and I say the same thing
also for the Japanese Wagyu like oh you
see all that fat in the marbleization
it's incredibly rich and if you eat it
like a westerner it's not right it's
just it's too much so certain steaks
certain types of beef you should be
eating only a small amount and
appreciating anything more like you just
it's just I don't know it gets me it's
it's too much
for me when did people start dry-aging a
year like when when did this really
because this is not something I mean
obviously I'd know nothing about
restaurants yeah
other than they're great yeah but when I
had heard about dry-aging out here
thirty days dry aged six days dry aged I
never heard of a year like is this a new
thing um you know they were doing it in
Spain for some time particularly with
the older animals like the oxen you know
animals that are five years eight years
ten years old and they would age these
for long periods of time I was not aware
of this when I started doing it but they
were the first people but I heard about
it was doing it while I was doing it
there was amazing a food writer Jeffrey
Steingarten who just like dialed in to
me and we did a tasting with one of my
culinary heros Harold McGee who wrote
the incredible book on food and cooking
which is a scientific manual to all
chefs around
it's amazing guy and he had put in his
book that there's really no difference
in flavor when you get to that that
point and so that later stage so we cook
three steaks and we cut a cube out of
the center of it and at that point you
know he says wait maybe there is
something different I'm not sure I mean
nowadays you hear more about it because
we're chefs we like to play with things
we like to push the limits on things but
not many people want to make the
commitment because it's so costly to
carry the inventory and they're scared
to actually do it because if you screw
it up you know you lose all the money so
I see more of it now but back when I was
doing it there really wasn't anybody
else pushing the limits maybe a few
people I don't want to say like I was
the only one but you know possibly that
could have been a few people but you
know so it's what's what's interesting
to me about just cuisine and cooking in
general is that I didn't think of it
until I watched Bourdain's original show
no reservations I didn't think of it as
an art form and then when I watched the
show I was like interested into cooking
this guy is that's one of the things
about
people being really passionate about
something I think it's an incredibly
contagious and his passion for cooking
and his fascination with different
methods these masters would use and the
way he would just just you could see it
like he was he was so focused on it and
so enthralled by these flavors and these
creations of these chefs would make that
I realized like oh this is an art form
it's just an art form that you eat but I
never thought of it that way
I just thought oh that place has
delicious food this place tastes good
and then you go to a really fine
restaurant or a fine steakhouse like
your place and you go oh these people
are mad they're artists they're artists
it bounces between art and craft you
know it's like there's there's a moment
in time when as chefs we explore it as
art you know because you know you're not
going in with any boundaries and you're
not going in and preconceived notions of
what it should be and that's when
cooking is a true art most of the time
we're we're doing the the craft part
where we figured it out and then there's
a regiment of like lining it up to make
sure it's consistent and we pride
ourselves and basically that consistency
and team gathering around and doing
something Universal together but the art
form for me is and maintaining just
being curious and inquisitive has just
been my bug from the day I decided to be
a chef and for many people like Bourdain
and every other chef that I know of it
that's that's the key that you know that
you'll never learn everything you know
but you know you keep trying those
there's like a sea of information that
you know that's out there to explore
yeah he would take you on these journeys
to these like very strange restaurants
in France where you know they're on the
side of a lake and there's like ten
customers and a hundred chefs working
and they're creating these things like
with filet knives and a grape and like
two or three caviar eggs and then they
give it to these people in there and ex2
seemed like what this is so different I
almost felt embarrassed
when I first started talking to him
about this like like I it's is it you
know what it's like it's like for me
like I've been a lifelong martial artist
and I went when some people believe
ridiculous things about martial arts and
then you have to kind of well that's not
really how it works you have to kind of
explain to them and then they see it
from my perspective no like oh you've
been doing this your whole life this is
something you're deeply invested in and
you're very passionate about you care
very deeply about the the true nature of
what martial arts are well that's how
cooking is to chefs it's they're all
very similar I know people don't like to
think of martial arts as it's a great
analogy but they don't like to think of
it as an art form because it hurts
people because it's violent and violence
is bad right but it is an art form it's
just a strange one that it's beautiful
to the people that appreciate it that
understand how difficult it is to pull
something off and how what this
incredible dance between these people is
but on the outside like an ignorant
person or a person with a very
narrow-minded perspective would say oh
that's not an art that's violence that's
terribly was it Meryl Streep that said
that wasn't it during what yeah it was
it was like and you know martial arts
are not the arts like okay lady
it's but people have their preconceived
notions and I had an embarrassing
preconceived notion about food and I say
embarrassing great analogy by the way it
is in many ways and in comedy sommore in
that sense as well because people look
at comedy like oh they're just telling
jokes yes yes they are telling jokes but
the process is so labor-intensive
there's so much going on and it's I
think it's like everything so many
things you look at them from the outside
whether it's carpentry or sculpture you
look at it from the outside and if you
have no experience in it people can
dismiss it and they don't think of it as
this passionate art form but now I have
a completely different I mean I became
good friends with Bourdain and you know
I did a show and hung out with them a
bunch times and
I got it then I'm like okay this is a
different thing than I had this this
idea this narrow-minded idea of what
food is and then you get to meet other
chefs and you meet all these people and
you're like these are these like sort of
underappreciated artists that are also
feeding people he had that ability he
had that ability to bridge the gap and
and to help people understand he
schooled me once and trying to
understand Japanese cuisine yeah you're
telling me about that yeah tell me about
what was that like well I was just I was
sitting there we around the table I was
there him and Emeril it was it was it
was after an event down in South Beach
food and wine and we're all as cooks do
all at the end of an event you know
we're sitting around it were just kind
of reminiscing on things happening and
he was there sitting next to him and
someone brought up the concept of you
know Japanese cuisine and I just said
yeah you know it's it's so simple and he
just says yes but it's so complex and
then I just took a step back and he just
began to really school me on it and he
just had the ability just to really
communicate food and connection to
community and culture and and that for
me was was a big moment like I just got
to really see him as that person
directly I didn't think that sushi was
very complex at all the Japanese food
until I watched jiro Dreams of Sushi al
that's it you watch that and you go oh
my god I mean you just look at the fish
and it just starts to curl you know it's
so fresh or they slept the clam and it
just like curls ups like whoa that's
fresh and the pride and the seasonality
and I mean like what blew me away I've
been to Japan a couple of times I have
this amazing guys know this is a Tokyo
fix fixer Shinji Nohara all the chefs
know him if you go to Japan Tokyo fix
her yeah he's known as a Tokyo fixer why
is he a fixer because he knows all the
places on the in the books off the books
if you want to know let's say just you
know know who like produces the best
tuna he'll get you to the tuna boat and
he'll introduce you to the guy the main
guy
but I mean these guys are by the tuna by
the tuna for example like you're seeing
them at the market touching feeling but
the best suit
she chefs know the actual captains and
they know how they're handling the fish
and they have a relationship that far
before the it actually hits the auction
I mean they're in it they're they're so
committed I asked him one day you know
he was talking about a this big tuna
auction that they do every year and I
said why would someone pay a million
dollars for tuna like you know
Westerners like how do you make your
money back it's like no you know
Japanese it's it's it's considered an
you know an obligation if you can afford
it to actually be able to even at a loss
to your customers because it's almost a
duty to do so and that for me is
profound and that's why Japanese chefs I
went there and I was just like that the
million dollar tuna thing was explained
to me by another chef as a dick waving
contest
he said it's essentially you're you're
looking for it's it's a prestige thing
it Steve yeah like that they'll show
that they're spending so much money on
this tuna not because it's worth that no
it's definitely not yeah because that's
why it's confusing to people cuz people
house a tuna worth million dollars well
it's not but but culturally yeah deep
down inside of them it's like it's
almost their duty to do it it's not as
if I mean it's it's definitely like this
you could look at as a show-off thing
but I mean if you really understand from
like Western culture but in reality
they're it's almost like it's a pride
thing it's not like hey look at me it's
really more like you know I'm able to
provide this for my customers so it's it
to me it's like it's a little bit more
beautiful to look at it that way right
you know and and profound and like even
like why I got into making knives from
me it's like is everything to do with my
trips to Japan was because I want to do
as a chef to do everything that I can
within the cycle of serving the steak on
the plate like up to the point where
they cut the meat to to you know have
that control on it and then ultimately
whether they like it or not that's their
business but at least I did everything
that I could you know to control it
because even just how you cut the meat
is has a different impact on how you
would taste it yeah that's one of the
interest
things about your place like you make
the steak knives so like when they serve
you and they put the the forks of the
knife down they tell you you know Adam
Perry Lang made this statement mmm and I
priced it at nine hundred fifty dollars
in one Senate buddy like why so much I
said it's priced to be a deterrent you
know it's one cent over the felony
threshold and we'd never felony
threshold it's like if you steal
something and the value is over nine
hundred fifty dollars it's a felony so
yeah so in the state of California so
from my perspective like I don't want to
sit there you know like so you know
people are idiots sometimes you know the
coins to the restaurant and they'll just
take stuff and they don't realize what
goes into and it's like listen you know
I know I'm gonna have a couple of bad
apples in there but the majority of
people really are good people and
they're not gonna steal things but a
good majority will take pepper mills and
things I mean it which infuriates us as
restaurant tours so it's so gross yeah
oh it's terrible it's terrible like what
they'll take you know meaningful stuff
because you know you you really want to
like do nice things for your customers
you catch people taking pepper mills no
I don't put pepper animals on the table
I won't even expose myself to but for
the knife though we have caught and like
I have one story you know only a few
people have attempted and I basically
got to the point of like pressing
charges to get the guy and but instead I
said I found them on you know Twitter
and I messaged him I was like listen I
know how do you know who's took your
knife you know we know everything and we
have cameras and we have you know who
the reservation is under so we had
cameras all over the restaurants when we
put the knife down we have a whole
system of like knife in knife out and
this guy had slipped in I'm not gonna
mention his name because that day he did
the right thing but he had slipped the
knife into the baby carriage into his
baby's character so I so I called a very
calmly and I said listen I don't think
you realize what went into those knives
I make them no response no response and
I dunno reminding I think it's a felony
and I'm gonna give you until 6 o'clock
today to
return the knife and then he realized we
were serious he would turn the knife and
then you know he returned it personally
yeah I had another guy and he turned it
and he just like its pissed off he
handed it back and he walked out the
door
what is he mad at you cuz he stole some
it's dealing with the general public I
mean in a sense this is a lot like
commie clubs like most people are
amazing yes and then you get a few
knuckleheads don't yell out things and
interrupt a show and you just try not to
allow it to to penetrate you to start
causing you to not make nice things to
your customers enjoy so you try to block
that out yeah just try to give like a
good experience yeah the best that you
can yeah that's the same thing with
comedy you know you want to make sure
that you never have a negative feeling
about the audience but some people do
develop that that don't understand
you're it's it's almost like if you read
every comment on Twitter you know most
people are nice yeah but it only takes
one percent like I was explaining to my
friend Jack who was on the other day
author Jack car and he read some
comments he goes now I know why you
don't read the comments I'm like I told
you I go listen you just have to think
if 1% of the people who are on my
Instagram page are assholes just 1%
that's ninety two thousand assholes it's
insane you have to think of it that way
like why would you risk your mental
well-being true and put it in the hand
of 92 thousand assholes that and that's
generous one out of 100 people if you
went into a room and there's a hundred
people in there what are the odds that
one of those people is gonna be a fuckin
idiot it's pretty high right well you've
got to think that way
times three or four online because of
anonymity yeah because the fact that
people are you know they don't think
they're hurting a person when they say
something mean and they look at a
restaurant like all these fucking guys
they don't need this knife yeah tuck it
or this will look cool and like it's
almost like this and a tight
yes and all this meal was so expensive
I'll steal a knife yeah yeah I mean they
feel like you are doing great you've got
this really nice restaurant on vine in
Hollywood you must be a baller
yeah they don't get it no well hopefully
they'll get it if they hear this yeah
listening that they actually stole the
knife yeah right now he's like
motherfucker yeah well we um yeah we've
gotten them back we've got a Mac the
good majority of them so so there's a
few out there out in the wild few out
there and you could buy them too right
you can well you know what like I have
sold it but again I price it to deter
right so because I only have a certain
number you know I made I think I made
like 320 on the first run and then I
just made another 500 with my partner
this he's a master bladesmith this guy
Casey London he's just you know him and
I like we're head down and we can
literally spend 12 to 14 hours just
stamping anacs insignia into the blade
and you know days upon days like
thousands of hours of work going to
these things and who else does that is
there any other chefs that make their
own knives not that I really know you
got that market cornered I guess so I
guess so you know how did you get
involved in that like it was that
something you thought like hey this
would be a great additional touch or
were you always fascinated with knife
making well I was oh I've always been
fascinated by knives because in knives
to a chef or an extension of themselves
so you can judge like a chef just
basically on how sharp then how they
maintain their knives in terms of what
type of quality of output they're
actually going to do it's essential
prides like so if you're just a home
someone who has a garden and grows a
tomato you know but you're gonna take
that first tomato you think you're just
gonna grab any knife from the drawer
you're gonna get your sharpest knife and
you're gonna slice into it so like
everything we do it's like if you're
seriously committed to the craft it's
like you want to make sure your tools
are top-notch and for me I've always you
know always had a knife in my hand but
when I saw my business in London you
know I wanted to just take some time and
I got into this concept
of wanting just to go that next step
next level and I was fascinated with
steel so I went to the New England
School in metalwork and I started first
we learned how to make steel from from
iron and then went through the whole
process I'm gonna take they have these
great courses you know week two weeks
three weeks at a pop so you know it's
about a year flying back and forth to
Maine to to attend the school and then
that community is is like I remember a
restaurant community before Food Network
got involved and you know it's all about
crafts and and sharing information so
you can go to these things called hammer
ins where around the country there'll be
an ensemble of maybe like nine to ten
you know master Smith's
who will show like a K handle making or
you know making a dagger or
tempering steel you know in a certain
way and you know you've learned and I
just became fascinated with it just to
actually just use a power hammer with a
5000 pound anvil and like thin out steel
and it's just like it's it just puts
adrenaline through you it's like
physical like making something and then
knowing that you're making something
that will last generations if it's
maintained I mean that's powerful stuff
you want to see some cool on the other
table that's a samurai sword from the
1500s oh my gosh can I take a look yeah
pull it out don't cut anybody that's a
legit samurai sword Wow papers and
everything witness stingray yeah I don't
I don't know whether the scabbard is
original but the steel the actual steel
is original I'm sure it's been cleaned
imagine that now look at this steel I
mean this steel is like it's 500 years
old
that's what's crazy and that's the
profound thing I mean there's something
about making something that would glass
like that I mean ya know it's amazing
it's an amazing thing to just have
around and when you pick it up and hold
it it's got weight to it but it's it's
it's delicate in the sense that its
young and elegant but yet and you see
the curve in the blade like none and you
know what's amazing about this is that
when they do the quench in other words
when they're actually putting the sole
of the blade into it was that the heat
treatment so you know anybody can like
pound out and make a shape well not
anybody but pretty much anybody who's
handy with you know making things could
make what looks like a blade but the
true soul of the blade comes through the
thermal cycle the heat treatment that's
why you know people like a Japanese
Steel's the best or German Steel's the
best because there's this whole process
that is about aligning the molecular
structure and the right type of stack
and the type of Steel that you do and
then hardening it or or softening it so
if you want a softer blade or you know
that might be more utility and or you
want a harder braid that might be more
brittle but can get really razor sharp
that's what determines what the blade is
and what it will be and it's that soul
the blade that like something like this
or this curve is actually produced by
the quench so after you go through this
process you heat it up and you put it
into the the water it actually it just
goes up and actually creates its curve
and evenly - which is incredible
that's why these guys are to me the
epitome of like masters these craftsmen
that make knives and blades well there's
always the dopest scenes in movies where
someone's making a samurai sword when
they're about to go out and kill
somebody with this is the thing is the
guy goes to the knife master or the the
sword master and he's pounding on it and
the the red-hot steel yeah dunk it into
the fire they want you know I went I
want to get a plate made for me in Japan
and I went to this amazing place corn
trading in New York and the owner she
came to me and she says well the knife
maker would like to have a picture of
you while they're making the blade and
at that time I was just like whoa this
is this before I was making one so look
at you I was like yeah yeah for summary
I said wow that's pretty profound you
know it's like okay you know puts your
soul your character into the blade so so
you
to think of you as he's making a guess
so that's cool for me it was pretty
incredible this is amazing yeah let me
get it out of here yeah yeah I always
people take pictures with this and I'll
have you take a picture with it yeah so
much cool stuff around too much this
fucking deaths a mess so I'm cleaning up
today after this podcast I've decided I
gotta take donnell rawlings black ash
candle off I love you Donnell but I'm
not into this smell every day but I want
to get back to something you said
earlier you said the way restaurants
were before the Food Network yeah like
what happened you know I think Food
Network and and the food shows in
general are a great thing you know it
empowers people to cook and there's all
different levels and I think it's the
the greatest thing it also has given us
as chefs a platform to do some
incredible things too but there was a
different type of motivation between
between the cooks in the kitchen and a
good number of the cooks today so before
you know there wasn't celebrity involved
so you were there for the reason for the
love the art of it where as nowadays I'm
not going to say everybody because I
cook with and I know there's plenty of
people that are very serious about it
it's about about the craft of putting in
the hours the repetition that doesn't
make sense until all of a sudden you're
doing something without thinking about
it and that's what it was like really
before we were just everybody was in the
kitchen was there because they loved
cooking not not for any reason of
celebrity or or whatever it is so it
really it did change good you know
patients like so people like the the
progression would be like oh you work as
a line cook for three to four years and
then you know you're then you're a sous
chef for a number of years and then
you're a chef and you know there was a
progression and then when the whole
thing came along and then it was
everybody was like from culinary school
to chef
you know they wanted to jump right into
it and our do you think there's a
significant number of people that are
actually getting into cooking to become
famous there's something about it yeah
there's an allure I mean it that it has
a it has a thing I don't know not the
term the famous is a little bit
different I'd say like notoriety in
other words they're like ready to show
like hey I can do this but with cooking
that there's a certain um of hours you
just you cannot avoid you have to put
this in you have to have the knife in
the in your hand for thousands of
thousands of hours before you really are
starting to cook because it's easy to do
a dish but it's difficult to do a dish
and to cook you know consistently with
all the different things getting thrown
at you like this coronavirus thing
you're like okay how do you adapt how
are you resilient you know how can you
bounce back how do you understand like
no matter what I'm gonna get this dish
up at nine o'clock if that customer
wants it at nine o'clock not anything
else I mean there's so the more that you
can get in terms of your toolbox in
terms of the use of the knife I mean
cooking I don't think about cooking when
I'm doing it it's just only when I step
back and reflect and I want to teach
somebody I said oh yeah I do that oh I
didn't notice that
but because office on your hands start
moving and is all about heat so you're
like oh I've heat on the side of the
grill I know it's not on the grill
grates but I'm going to use it to cook
the side of the steak I'm gonna push it
up against there how often do you teach
people anytime what somebody asks I love
teaching it I mean for me I love to
share my knowledge and I mean I'm at a
stage where you know it's like martial
arts well I I did Aikido for a while and
what was amazing to me was the learning
process for the black belt so your white
belt basically and take your black belt
pretty much I know this and brown belt
in nervous but you know when you're
training is you know by teaching and
explaining and slowing down you get to
reinvent and not reinvent you get to
reacquaint yourself it's something that
is so familiar so that movement might be
functional but now you're you're seeing
someone else doing it and like because
of you to rethink it so when I'm
teaching somebody I'm actually learning
yeah that happens
that's a big part of this process that
happens in jiu-jitsu when people start
teaching and I've seen i-i've never
taught jiu-jitsu but I've seen it from a
lot of my friends that have become
teachers all sudden their level jumps
way up and there's the only thing that
could be attributed to is that they're
teaching people so because they're
teaching people they're going over the
fine details that you would ordinarily
you just kind of have it in your head
like you know and you pass the guard you
put your knee here you put your foot
there it's normal you do it all the time
but then when you teaching someone it
solidifies the important points and
almost all the great jiu-jitsu
practitioners are also great teachers
that's its key you know I totally relate
to that correlation you know from me you
know it gets you to really like dial in
on the minutiae of details and perfect
yourself well not perfect you but strive
towards professor craft of cooking
yeah after cooking and again there's
probably a dozen or more different
styles right like everyone's got their
own way to sort of prepare things and do
things it's definitely a core like
you'll have different schools of how you
approach things like you say hey one guy
does it this way one guy does it that
way but I think the best thing that you
can say is that you know you know I like
I think about as like hey you have a
golf bag and you have all these
different irons and woods and all these
different things in there it's like what
you know the circumstance the
environment it's gonna dictate how you
cook not say hey I'm gonna cook that
steak and I'm gonna use the cast-iron
pans like well I don't have a cast-iron
pan so what you can do is like well I'm
gonna cook my grills like you don't have
a grill just say okay what do I have
it's like you have this this and this
that's you know so I only have this
shitty you know steel pan here and doing
like this and you know you take a look
at it and you know like you adapt you
know I guess that this is a she'll is
steel pan shitty no no it's great
okay it's that like I'm just saying like
the steel pans are great blue steel you
know I use that all the time in the
kitchen you know I like cast-iron just
in terms of the the heat recovery that
it has what does that mean when you have
a cast-iron pan so you you heat it's
like it's slow to heat up but then once
it gets that level if I was
like a cold stake in it the cold stake
on a different type of pen would bring
the temperature of the steel down and
then it has to heat back up and then by
that time water can start to develop
like underneath the steak and then it
starts boiling or steaming and that's
why you can't get a crust when you put
in a steak into a cast-iron pan for
example and you do app launch or
whatever the rate the rate at which
water is repelled is it basically it
steams or it goes away from the meat
it's actually and so as a result it then
starts the Browning okay and
transforming the flavor rather than it
boiling because if you taste it a boiled
piece of meat versus a piece of meat
with the crust you'd say the piece of
meat with the crust is a lot better you
know so there's just something about it
so the cast-iron pan is basically when
you put the steak in the temperatures
it's not even gonna be moved because
that's it's like a freight train it's
just moving you know it's gonna keep
going but something like a thinner steel
pan if you put something big and cold
into it it's gonna drop the temperature
of the steel and then it has to recover
not only with the steel but the mass of
let's say a thick steak so it's got to
compensate that's really what now I have
a carbon steel pan that I sear steaks on
all the time most of the time the way I
cook is I use a Trager grill and I cook
it very slow so I'll do it at 225
degrees and I'd do it until I hit an
internal temperature about 125 and then
I sear the outside that's been the
method that I use well I'm gonna just
share my knowledge with you so I you
know with cooking steaks the term sear
doesn't really it's it's a misnomer
there's only browning because like
searing really only can happen when you
know you have live flesh so to speak so
it doesn't actually happen like where it
Sears in or seals in juices what about
like ahi tuna when they sear that well
it's more like more like browning I mean
I'm just it's just like it's a terminal
it's a terminology it's like keep
searing I'm not not telling you not the
thing the concept is this it's browning
it's not searing so
bring me back on track low temperature
okay so for example what I would tweak
with you is like I would say go to 265
you can have the same results in a
quicker period of time with the same
tenderness that ratio of speed is not
going to impact your products so at the
end of the day 225 is everybody says
slow and low but I'd say a lot of times
like a bit hotter and a bit quicker is
actually better for the crust
development and also for the meat
because for the tenderness of the meat
let's say you have a thick like like a
brisket and it's got all these all this
collagen in it which is tightly wound
protein I think about it as like a
sponge that's dehydrated when you throw
it on top of the water it kind of floats
and then all the senate catches and then
soaks up the juice so when you're
putting it in at that lower temperature
you're heating it up you're causing the
protein to squeeze out the liquid and
then if you're doing at the rate ratio
it's drinking the liquid into the
collagen to turn into gelatin which is
that anxious beautiful mouthfeel that
you'll get from a long cooked piece of
meat okay now if you get a longer piece
of meat like a really well-done brisket
what temperature you cooking that
depending on the cooker that I'm using
but 265 is my is my typical dial in so
265 you don't you ever go lower than
that for anything I can if I want to get
sleep it's depending on my schedule
in other words like I'm gonna get
relatively the same results but less
crust development from 225 depending on
how I handle it again there's like a
lots of little variables so but by 265
I've found that for brisket for example
it's the right ratio of that college and
drinking it up to get the gelatin and
also the right crust development a lot
of what I cook is wildgame most of it so
which is a lot leaner and and so that's
why I would go a little bit hotter I'm
tried the next time you got nothin till
65 go to 65 okay and then how do you
feel about that method of cooking it
slowly then browning the outside later I
don't I'm not a big fan of it because
you know there's all these different
compounds that are full you know it's
not like I mean they call it like a
reverse here yeah it's
the terminology right for me there's
nothing like a crust that is created
because what ends up happening is it's
like you know if you're cooking it slow
all these juices start getting pulled
out okay and they disappear that like
their juice on the bag and make it into
a sauce or it gets evaporated into the
air the thing about doing that is is
like if you're putting it directly in
the pan while it's wet all those juices
are bouncing back and then read hearing
to the meat okay that's flavor that's
flavor you you would lose normally night
the sacrifices like Shore you'll get it
cooked from end to end perfect okay so
be pink - pink okay it's great right but
if you go back in you know sear it or
brown it after you miss out on all these
compounds and it's not the same crust I
bet you if I gave you a blind taste test
using the both methods you would
appreciate the other crust over the
reverse here and this is even with wild
game even with a very lean meat that's a
different story that's what I cooked
though okay that's a different story so
with the lean meat I would probably say
to brown it first and then go slow the
reverse because there is a gentle there
is a gentle way of of like it's so lean
you want to kind of like slide into home
I kind of say is like you develop a
certain amount of mint momentum and for
the leaner meats it's about the rest so
you're cooking it and then you're taking
it out and then you're allowing that
heat momentum to kind of carry over now
I gave you a bunch of elk meat how did
you cook it um a lot of it just like hot
and fast so I can really taste it you
know I don't mind a bit of a chew
most people are different you know for
me I want to taste the meat I want to
savor like the juices of what that is
and Elks my favorite thank you for that
I mean I'm still I still have some of it
it's fantastic I got more more oh I'll
take it down all right it's the best
well I want to try some of the way you
cook it I want I want to have you cook
some of that elk I'd love to yeah we got
to make that happen Wednesday's I would
love to see your method and what the
difference is I learned how to do it
from Chad Ward he's a world champion
barbecue guy whiskey bent barbecue on
Instagram
whiskey is it BB q whiskey bent bvq I
think Chad's great guy and I've been
with him in camp on several hunting
trips where he's cooked for Trager like
Trager will hire him to come and cook
for us and it's incredible and this
that's the method method that I learned
from him is that that reverse your
method it's incredible I mean you can go
to all different chefs and don't get to
the same place taking different paths
and they'll get there for me it's like
fishing you know it's like which fly
like you know which fly do you choose
like fine you know whatever the hatches
but it's often times it's the fly that
you believe in most that is gonna catch
the fish I mean okay I'm drawing a
terrible analogy here I know you're
saying confidence you're gonna fish it
harder you're gonna believe in it and
you know you embrace it and a lot of
that has to do with success in cooking
you know you have to believe in what
you're doing there's some obviously
there's some metrics involved but a
master like that guy for example
um I can't refute at the end of the day
it's fantastic I get there a different
way you know maybe there's subtle
differences maybe mine's better maybe
it's not I don't even think better
that's right but it is exactly they're
they're different and what would what do
you prefer and what do you how you feel
about Suvi I think it has its place but
it's not the answer you know for me um
you know certain types of proteins like
shellfish it's it's a godsend
shellfish yes what lobster tails or
shrimp or anything like that because the
protein there it's so delicate and if
you can go slow like Thomas Keller has a
fantastic recipe butter poaching lobster
tails in sous-vide and it just cooks it
so that it's super tender and it's not
tough and then obviously with vacuum
seal it with the butter of the butter
and some aromatics they take it out you
can kind of like toast it on the grill
lightly yeah my friend Forrest go
Forrest Galante he's a biologist and he
goes off of Santa Barbara and goes out
there and and and catches him and he
gave me so you've never done it with the
butter and no no never done its movie
I'm going
Changez I've only done it on a grill
I've only done it when it was delicious
I cooked he gave me four lobster tails
that he captured himself yeah they were
delicious but I cooked him on a grill I
just followed a recipe that I found and
with butter and paprika and a couple
different things yeah next time put that
in the bag seal it I'll follow the time
sequence take it out and then kiss it on
the grill you're gonna so what other
shellfish is good is scallops good he's
got me good good with with sous-vide but
you know for me scallops I mean
particularly if they're fresh I mean I'd
rather kind of just cook them in a pan
um there's something about that
particular the cell structure and the
scallop that I want just you know
charred in a pan and still just like
almost like a bit raw there's a sweet
spot with scallops yeah there's such a
sweet spot and and once you cross the
line how do you know when they're ready
well for me it's a feel and you know you
want to kind of feel it so that you know
when you touch it
it doesn't feel raw but it starts to
give it a slight spring and then you
pull it and then like I said earlier
it's like you kind of like slide into
home you let that residual heat in that
temperature kind of slow down a lot of
times if you're going a bit fast you
take it and they have like some cold
melted butter not too cold still a
little bit liquid and you cook it and
then you just dunk it right into the
butter and it just arrests the cooking
and then you have it there and like then
the guests come and then all you have to
do is just like heat it up a little bit
and then it goes it's not though I mean
it's like you're gonna dial it in you
know it's it depends on what you want
you know the end result so like you know
you have guests coming over you want to
enjoy your time with them you know you
figure out little tricks what you can
get away with and what you can do my
friend Tom Papa he met earlier who's
getting tested for kovat along with you
when he has been in here before he
brings this homemade sourdough bread
that's just sensational I'm not a bread
guy I don't eat a lot of bread I eat
very little of it in fact especially now
but when I eat his like my god it's so
good and he's he keeps saying I'm
better every time I do it I'm like it's
fucking bread no are you getting better
no he's getting better it's crazy
he's my friend I'm just fucking around
but he's it's similar in a lot of ways
to your dry-aging too because he has
this starter which is a living thing
it's in you know his starters I don't
know how many years old it's old as fuck
though but he's been using this same
star that he got from somebody else and
just it brings soul to it yeah I think
soul to the food yeah for me and that in
that connection that you have to the
food is gonna also you know make you
care about it more while you cook it and
you know it's not just a commodity we're
like okay what are me 16 steaks in a box
you know and bring it in I mean you can
push out food like that there's a place
like there's a place for that in this
world well what I'm really hoping really
hoping is that some sort of a rapid test
for kovat not even like the 15-minute
one that we came because I heard
something about some saliva tests that
they're trying to develop that's
extremely rapid that would be amazing if
you could just test people right before
they come into your restaurant no one
has to worry about shit yeah you know
gearing up for what it's what the new
world is gonna be yeah temperature you
know everybody gets their temperature
taken you know but that's not good
enough see the temperature thing is not
good enough because if you're
asymptomatic but you're still spreading
it like why we're pretending like you
that's avoiding science we need to find
out whether or not people actually have
it this temperature thing is just
whether or not you're sick I know it
doesn't mean you don't have it if you're
if your temperature is low it's it's
real weird and that's what's being
that's what's gonna be mandated on us I
mean there's a certain series of things
that we're gonna have to do and it's you
know nobody knows for sure or what not
but you know who knows well at a certain
point in time I think we really need to
make a decision as to whether or not
we're just gonna allow this to take over
our world or whether we're going to do
what we can do to protect the sick you
know if you're in contact with people
that have a weakened immune system
you're gonna have to have a
different life than someone who does and
if you're a person with a weakened
immune system you're gonna have a
different life if you're an older person
you're gonna have to have a different
life but for the vast majority of us
this this we're gonna have to give
people the freedom to make choices and
to do what they want to do with their
own life and their own health if you're
giving people the freedom to eat
terrible food like heart attacks are
killing people as quickly as anything
right
cancer is killing people as quickly as
anything cigarettes kill a half a
million people a year there is no
government mandate that's trying to get
people to stop smoking cigarettes in
fact there's not a single word ever
spoken about it in presidential
campaigns and the governor governor
campaigns congressional campaigns no
one's out there trying to get people to
stop smoking cigarettes but yet it's
killing a half a million people every
year in this country alone
we're so strange in and I understand
cigarettes is a choice and Infectious
Diseases or not we're worried about
protecting people who have these
compromised immune systems but it's not
most people you know the vast majority
of people that are going to get this or
not it's not going to be fatal we have
to figure out how to protect the people
that are high-risk but to quarantine the
whole country it just seems like maybe
it was a good move to do initially but
we can't sustain that so now we have to
figure out how to move forward and
there's all these protests all over
California now I'm sure you've seen it
in the Orange County and cent and
Huntington Beach and there's counties in
Northern California they're like we're
opening up everything we're gonna open
up restaurants we're opening up bars
we're going back to business Texas is
basically back to business Montana is
doing the same and you know they have a
modified approach to dealing this and
we're gonna have to figure it out on the
long way but I just don't want us to
lose I don't want to lose any people but
I certainly don't want us to lose
restaurants either I don't want to lose
bars I don't want us to lose comedy
clubs I don't want to us to lose small
businesses that's what its gonna look
like I mean here we are like you know
talk about a comedy club like how do you
even like six feet apart and then
doesn't make sense a certain energy in
the room like
type of world do we have you know in
front of us the way it's slated right
now right no what kind of government
overreach or we're gonna have where
people gonna come in and police this you
know like what I mean there's no real
science to that either by the way you
know they have a bunch of people jammed
into a room whether they're six feet
apart or not you're touching things
you're breathing on each other I mean I
don't I don't know I I think you should
allow people to do what they want to do
you know if it gets to a certain point
where we have some sort of a viable cure
or a treatment like there's this what
does that stuff called again this
antiviral medication that doctor foul Qi
has been REMS
yeah remand des vir that hey say mean
boy we're hoping for that right we're
hoping that there's some sort of a
treatment where it's not a death
sentence for people even with immune
compromised systems so I mean I just I
feel so bad for people like you and for
all the people out there that own these
amazing restaurants that it's one of my
favorite things to do is to go to a nice
restaurant and it would be it for me to
go to work yes be such a shame if
because of this this pandemic all that
goes away I mean and what kind of a
buildup are we looking at to try to
bring those places back yeah I'd you
know I don't have the answers you know
for me what can be done if you had a
magic wand what would you do if someone
said atom fix this it's difficult for me
because you know I hear your point but I
have just such great empathy for you
know people that would get sick just by
someone else's negligence
yeah and and for me so that it's a bit
of a tussle here because you know I want
to just you know on one hand you have
like an economy that is just tanking and
businesses that are gonna go out of you
know business but then on the other hand
you know you have people that are
defenseless some people that look
healthy fantastic you know like a friend
45 years old goes in and they're on a
ventilator it's just like you can't give
the answers right
I don't know if I'm even prepared to
give you a summary on it I haven't
formulated in my brain the way that I've
just been coping and that's all I'm just
trying to hold on and you know for me
I'm just trying to put faith in the fact
that people have to eat and people like
you really want to have restaurants
around and in the end we're gonna find
our way and the only way I know to get
through this is just a head down and
work and be really helpful to people
that are in need and be there for the
community and feed them but outside of
that you know I I don't know God like if
I had the I I don't know how to answer
you yeah nobody knows that's what's even
if I was in control I mean you know
because I I don't want people to die
unnecessarily by people's negligence but
on the other hand I just don't know well
it's such an incredibly messy situation
with no clear-cut answer because of the
fact that you do have these people that
are seemingly healthy thirty-five year
old people that are getting it and dying
and it doesn't make sense and then you
have you know you hear all guy World War
two veteran 102 years old beats kovat
yeah you know like you see that too so
it's like what how do I think about this
do I think about it like the common cold
do I think about it like the flu do I
think about it like some new thing that
we I mean everyone is unsure and that's
what makes it key is for us to get the
back you know a vaccine as quick as
possible you know so that we can get it
you know at least have some type of
defense for this because and I don't
know how long that's going to take
people like are talking a ridiculous
amount of time but well it takes a long
time to develop a vaccine correctly I
mean they're going through a bunch of
trials right now we've talked about it
before there's several ongoing including
ones with human beings that they're
testing the vaccine on there was a woman
in Seattle she was the first-ever person
to receive this coronavirus vaccine
there they did a story on her in the
monitoring her you know that's the only
way for us to be sure yeah I mean
because responsibly I mean even just
people coming into the restaurant like
don't get me wrong I want the business
on
I want to have a bar that's bustling I
want to have a vibe I want people to be
happy well-fed enjoy themselves but
right not be nervous don't be nervous
someone coughs and everybody freaks out
yeah servers have masks on so now all of
a sudden we can't have music because
people can't hear the server and there's
you know yeah yeah you know buddy used
to give a shit they would shake hands
it's weird you see people shake hands in
a movie now what are you doing I know
it's you could just get twitchy about it
yeah so it happened so quickly too
that's what's weird like the whole world
shifted so rapidly and people like you
were the ones I mean obviously the
people who get hit the hardest of the
people a with the disease and B that
work with people with the disease right
the people that are that have the
disease and then the the first
responders and hospital workers and and
all the different people that work to
help those people they're they're the
most devastated by this but there are so
many small businesses right now that are
in this position that you're in where
there's so much uncertainty is the key
is gonna be the rent game I mean at the
end of the day for a lot of these
business that's the looming factor is is
being on on the hook you know not not
only just to make rent the following
month with a compromised you know 50%
occupancy you know if you can imagine
you know if you're paying rent for that
you know you have a model in terms of
how much income you know someone brought
out the the the possibility of like
instead of you know forgiving the rent
taking the rent and putting it on the
back end of it so right now essentially
the for the three months you're not you
don't need to pay the rent but you'll be
add on three months to the end of your
lease you know that for me makes sense
but for us to turn around and you know
work at you know 10-15 percent capacity
and then all of a sudden get a bill for
six figures say okay you owe this so
who's gonna who's gonna fill my shoes
like so if I can't make it at my
location
who's gonna come along and take on that
rent anyway nobody's gonna do it so
they're stuck we're stuck what are we
gonna do right it's almost like the
deficit that gets established is
insurmountable
for someone to come on and start from
scratch like how much I mean you started
that restaurant how long ago
it's Wien have a two year anniversary
and I guess it's in four days so I must
have found out about it right after you
open yeah how long did it take to
prepare to open up that restaurant God
if you want to include looking for a
space and trying to find the right
location with a couple years so a couple
years of preparation and then how long
does it take to actually develop the
space and set it up correctly what was
it before you guys were there it was an
empty space I mean it was a project you
know built from scratch so you know
going through just the permitting
process in LA and just going through
everything it you know you have to hire
so many consultants and people in
between to get things through it's a lot
different than New York so I mean for us
we were delayed like every project is
delayed I mean it took us over a year to
build it out and you know you just like
let's open already because each day that
passes you know you're losing money and
when you do something like this like
were you working as a chef in another
place while you were doing this no I was
just basically living off of the
proceeds from the sale of my business
that I had and in London oh there are
other projects and you just kind of like
as an entrepreneur you know you're just
putting it into the restaurant hoping it
opens as quick as you can and then you
know kind of then you have your cash
flow yeah that's opening up a business
like that must be so insanely stressful
yeah because you know especially you
know not inheriting an existing
restaurant like for me is like wow I
really believe in the area I love
Hollywood and Vine the caves gave me
like certain activity in the area gave
me like in New York five I really love
the energy yeah so I love the historic
building it was built in 1923 it was
LA's for a skyscraper you know as a
whole story like as chefs and restaurant
rows we get romantic about we get
connected to the story to to what it is
and sometimes it overrides the
sensibility of you know building it out
but you know you invest in it and and
you want it to work out and it's it
works out it's great but it's a lot of
work and it's
to get there that whole area seemed
before this like it was experiencing a
resurgence like it was like super shady
just about ten years ago yeah a lot of
development you know I think that over
the course of like the past like within
five years and two years like six
billion in development of buildings and
hotels and there's a revitalization
project that's taking place on Hollywood
Boulevard that's gonna extend the
sidewalks and make it almost promenade
like and you know I think that you know
if any place and LA should be that kind
of place it should be there I mean I saw
the revitalization and Times Square for
example you know as a kid like don't
walk down the street and don't go there
and now it's Disney you know it's it's a
whole nother world
it's so weird there now well now it's a
really weird yeah before the pandemic it
was it's like it became a mall became a
mall that's crazy
and you know its dirtiest place in all
of New York it was horrible
I've only been there a couple of times
back in the day back in the 90s before
it got cleaned up but I remember it was
not a place I wanted to stop yeah
70s and 80s like I remember my dad like
sitting down is like okay you don't walk
down the street and you know you always
look as if you know you're carrying
something you know like you always look
like you walk like as if you're carrying
a knife or something
this is a 12 13 year old kid you know oh
my god how do you walk like you're
carrying a knife really confident like
that you can handle yourself and you
know and not you know not look like a
victim remember the thing they would do
in the movies where a guy would pretend
to have a knife or hat pretend right
right started over a scarf that was that
sort of that went away with quicksand
yeah I think people start talking about
those things when you first came out
here was that the first place that you
opened a view have you had a restaurant
in LA before no I did I did a series of
pop-ups so for me you know there was a
huge lot by Jimmy Kimmel show and I
basically took a 5,000 square-foot space
and I built it out I have you know a
whole BBQ trailer on a tractor trailer
so I have a thousand gallon propane
tank that was custom Walden by her and
Franklin in Austin he's amazing little
top runs barbecue yeah yeah barbecue top
top fabrics got some great YouTube
videos well he's he's tremendous and you
know aside from like the videos in terms
of teaching people he's just a great
down-to-earth guy and he seems like yeah
he's tremendous so I just created just
kind of like a an homage to to barbecue
to doing it right
had a little Airstream I slept in the
parking lot cooking it overnight served
only lunch you know everybody got the
same thing so I did that for about four
years before opened up the restaurant
how do you know Jimmy I did a show back
in 2008 we hit it off right away and you
know after the show like hey you want a
barbecue so then we ended up hanging out
the weekend and he's into fly fishing
you know we're until like the same into
the same stuff we just became great
friends so you actually are into fly
fishing so you're talking about it not
just as an analogy oh I'm obsessed with
it really Oh where do you go that's with
it anywhere in anywhere but a good
majority of the place the places that I
love and on Idaho Montana Wyoming are
you one of those catch-and-release guys
absolutely 100% how weird is that though
it's not if you look at it as as just a
system and environment you know you know
we talked about this process per thing
is like fly-fishing like it's the one
thing you can invest your time in and
you can do into a very old age like so
if you're lifting weights you know
there's a certain point where you know
you're just gonna you know stop but like
fly-fishing can really invest your time
into and there's just something about
all the different facets of it that are
absolutely amazing so gosh I got lost my
track I'm thinking about it well I did a
lot of fly-fishing when I was kid oh
really yeah where did you go Boston I
mostly did it on ponds and lakes oh yeah
I did a lot of fishing but a lot of fire
as though it's the take on a popper on a
fly rod of a largemouth bass you know
it's fun but I also like topwater baits
you know with a casting rod and casting
reel yeah like spinning tackle I like a
lot of different fishing but fly-fishing
is
for people who think fishings too easy
then I know this you know okay this is
what you had asked me to say you the
catch and release things so it's kind of
like creating a sustainable culture an
environment that gets passed on for
generations because there's so much more
than just catching the fish it's that
moment in time when you completely block
out you turn your phone's off or most of
the time you're out of range you with a
fishing buddy and you're almost like
parallel playing and you're sitting
there and you're just you're just you
focus on a certain riff in the water and
you start casting to it and you start
figuring out what's going on and there's
some real beauty in the whole process of
it that to me it's like shooting an elk
with a suction cup of the end of the
suction cup arrow that's gonna drop off
and he's gonna be unharmed
it's just weird I have done catch
release before I just just state that
but when I think about it when I spend
time alone thinking about it I'm like
why am I doing this I'm putting a hook
through this fucking fish's head why
don't I just leave that poor fish alone
unless I want to eat him like I like
catching fish and then eating them yeah
that's that's my favorite thing to do so
maybe I should just stick to that well
maybe I mean you know for me like trout
it doesn't really eat that well there's
so many other what doesn't eat well
throughout those how do you say such a
thing don't you think there's a method
to cook trout perfectly mmm where it's
delicious I've had trout in restaurants
before in Iceland I'm not saying it's
not delicious but I am saying that
there's so many other fish out there
that are better that I better and most
of the fish I like to eat more rare and
raw you know for me like that it's more
flavor but but the trout for me I don't
know like at this point it's like a
sacrilege to kill the killer trout I
mean I just identify with then just that
whole process but well trout tastes
better than largemouth bass oh yeah and
I've released
I've caught and released largemouth bass
before yeah yeah yeah concerning on then
it's the stagnant water it's swampy
tasted them there it is weird that you
know that is a that is a factor this
swamp people because smallmouth bass
I've eaten it tastes much better oh yeah
I like it the same thing to my dry-aged
room with
that concept is that you know if you
don't have that free-flowing air and
that kind of that oxygen in the room it
has an impact on flavor if you have like
a swampy wet environment it's gonna
impact the B if I think about that all
the time here's an allergy the monkey
wrench into theory catfish catfish is
delicious it's delicious but if you have
a catfish from a pond it's not as
vicious so like River catfish is what
you want because it's following the
water problem I mean I think I've had
catfish that are just absolutely
phenomenal
yeah I've also had catfish that was
muddy you know right right and there's
different methods that people used to
try to get rid of that muddy like that
I've seen people soak them in milk I've
heard of people even soaking them in
coca-cola which is really weird I've
never heard that I've heard milk I've
heard you know buttermilk breaks it down
a little bit you know but then again if
you're gonna fry anything with
buttermilk and crust then you know you
could have cardboard in there tastes
good no really yeah right that's like
the spices and the frost is what you're
eating more than the actual flavor of
the flesh itself yeah last time I
entertained fly food I haven't done it
in years but last time I entertained it
I was with my family we were in Montana
we were taking a whitewater rafting trip
down the Gallatin River which is really
fun yeah
but as we're going there there was all
these guys that were fly-fishing and
they seemed like the most peaceful
people as well just casting and and just
just slowly manipulating this and then
they were catching these these trout and
then just gently catching them and then
releasing them yep and we have a group
of guys that we do this with we travel
all around this maybe about like eight
to ten of us where we'll go and we'll go
on a trip together and Jimmy Kimmel does
this with you oh yeah oh he is he is
obsessed with fly-fishing you know we
are both like this is a whole journey we
logged the trips we talked about what
this caught you catch your do you rather
tie your own flies um I've done it but I
don't do it now I mean with the
restaurant the way it is you know it's
it's I'm always just so Tomkins so
time-consuming and now that they make
such beautiful patterns but there is
maybe the next level like when I retire
quote-unquote you know like Delvin so I
have like a whole mailbox desk
all like the hackle and everything there
but it's just sitting there you know you
talk about how making your own knives is
like another level I would imagine the
tying your own fly it's the same and
then attach matter out you know it's
that whole process the lead up to you
have a pattern or it's even just like
what are they eating seeing what's again
what's hatching coming off and matching
the hatch there's some the temperature
of the water the water levels the speed
like the first thing we check before we
go on a trip is what are the water
levels what's the the water flow like
was you know if it's going too fast like
the trout or like getting like all the
dirt everything you know hitting them in
the face you know but like there's a
certain like level where you look for
where it's best for yes or it's always
like okay what are the conditions like
you know you go through it so it's like
a whole process before like the lead in
that how did you start well I've always
loved you know fishing like any kind
deep-sea anything as a kid like it was
my escape since I was a little kid but I
think that I always looked at
fly-fishing as like the higher level you
know I always aspired there was like
like I saw I remember being on the
Delaware River and I was at camp and
there was a guy just underneath a bridge
and he just kind of picked up like 20 30
yards of wine he just laid it down and I
was up at a high level and I just saw
the fish come up and bite it and I was
just like I was like whoa you know just
like blew me away and then from that
point on I always wanted to and then I
bought my first fly rod and they always
remember you're you know you always
remember your first fly rod I still have
it and and it just started the obsession
there there's just something about the
connection to the fish and the whole
thing as opposed to just kind of like
going on a boat and trolling and waiting
for them to strike like this is more
like hunting what you're doing is is
like you're trying to find the location
of the fish and then you have to place
the fly and you have to like let it
drift without any drag and it's like
this combination of skill and intuition
and hunting that's the excitement
whereas just catching and throwing meat
in the thing okay I mean I've done it
and I still do it I like me on the water
fly-fishing is just like this
higher-level thing do you do any kind of
fishing with lures other than
fly-fishing do you ever like not really
and I can't even like there's so much
social pressure you know amongst my
group anyway because they get on me
because all most of the guys are Drive
like Jimmy is like dry fly only like
even if like no vegetation dry flies or
flies that float on the float on the
surface it's like the epitome of like
delicate presentation and then
underneath you know you can basically
you follow like the life cycle of an
insect so in the eggs go to the bottom
and then it the larva comes up and it
kind of floats the surface and then it
pops open and it flies away most of the
fish eat all the food that's subsurface
so before it even gets to the surface so
their eyes are like straight down when
the conditions are right the trout are
looking up because the hatch happens so
that's when all the bugs are coming up
and that takes you see the fish and it's
more dramatic
jimmy is like straight up like dry fly
fisherman like even a fly and all comes
from like one of our mentors and this is
Huey Lewis like he's part of the Lewis
in the news yes he's one I really like
he is like one of like he's one of our
group hip to be square yeah 100%
he is lives in Montana and he is like we
talk about every year fishing on the
Bitterroot for the swallow hatch which
is a certain kind of almost like a
salmon fly it's very large hmm and when
these things come up and and hatch like
fish are huge and they're hitting and
jumping out of the water it's very
dramatic so Wow yeah and does everybody
catch them release or does any do you
have one of the people that catch them
and cook them not in our crew it's very
look down upon huge you'd never I mean
even me like Oh like they they tease me
because if they're not biting on the
Flies like I'll drop a bead head which
is like underneath the fly and so it's
like kind of like they call it like
bobber fishing - cheating cheating so
it's not like they call it down and
dirty that's opposed to you know on the
surface that's so silly yeah yeah isn't
it crazy sometimes I just want to see a
fish at the end listen
there's bowhunters you know i bowhunt
and there's bow hunters there also rifle
hunt and then there's bow hunters that
look at rifle hunters like it's like
legalized poaching yep like what are you
doing I'm using a rifle the animal see
yeah but then there's other people that
have a really good ethical argument for
that like hey if I am at 200 yards
they'll see an elk or a deer and I
squeeze that trigger that is a dead
animal 100% of the time it's a huge
response another person it's not but
it's very high 90s yeah yeah that's a
huge responsibility for the animal I
mean you know you want the animal just
you know not suffer well it's also
there's something about the difficulty
factor of bow hunting it's very
effective when the arrow hits the animal
is the animals die like they could die
as quick if not quicker than a rifle
with a well-placed arrow because they
bleed so quickly it goes through the
vitals and they're done in seconds but
it's harder to do and it requires an
immense amount of discipline and
dedication and I'm sure fly-fishing
requires some but with bow hunting you
literally have to practice every day
yeah I mean you think you saw in the
back I have a archery range in the
garage back there where you see there's
a 45 yard range and I shoot arrows every
day I love it I have a boat too like a
PCSO yes yeah it's beautiful it's a
great boa went down with my friend going
Jonas he like took me down easily he's
like hunters like this is what you get
and I got it and I don't get enough
practicing I've never gone hunting with
it so you know yeah it's not something I
recommend when I wanted to so I mean I
you know I have friends that want to do
it I want to go bow hunting with you
Mike no you don't yeah if you did you'd
be out there practicing every day like
it's it's it's a thing that once you
once you realize what's at stake how
difficult it is to do how much respect
you have to have for the the art of
archery and how much how much effort has
to be put into the discipline most
people don't want to do that like if you
really want to hunt your own meat and
this is one of the things that's come up
during this pandemic because people are
really scared about the food supply and
they're scared about not having food in
their home that they can rely upon and
all
so before that there was this whole
thing about gathering organic meat like
people were worried about the source of
the meat they were worried about animals
that weren't treated correctly in
factory farming and all those all the
different things that people should be
concerned about and the ultimate
solution to that is get an animal that's
in the wild yeah this is way this way
this animals been living the way they've
been living for hundreds of thousands of
years and you just you you stealthily
make your way through their world get
yourself into a position and then
through hard work and dedication and
understanding and take an animal
ethically yep
I'm with you on that you know I think
it's great I mean and also I love that
you you know the responsibility you take
for it you know it's it's like you know
some people don't understand hunting
they think it's just a bunch of Yahoo's
going out there and some maybe are but
you know the people that I know that
take it seriously you know take a huge
responsibility with it and the people
that I know that do it that take a huge
responsibility
they're some of the best people I've
ever met my life and the most dedicated
and the kind of hunting that I do which
is Western mountain elk hunting yeah
requires physical fitness requires
incredible stamina because you're you're
going gaining and losing thousands of
feet of elevation in a day you might
track 15 20 miles every day I mean you
have to be fit and you have to be ready
and then you have to be able to keep
your nerves yeah and then a final moment
yeah you know it's it's like yeah you
could hunt for ten days for one moment
so you're you're hunting for 10 days for
15 seconds it's profound like a build up
it's amazing you know you gotta keep
your shit yeah it's it's hard and
there's no catch and release you know
catch release and bone yeah but when I
sit down to say the code though if you
really look at it it's I mean if just
focus on the catch and release or
whatever but there's a code to it I mean
you get it you know I I believe in that
yeah the code the difference between bow
hunting and regular hunting versus
regular fishing and fly even just right
regular hunting you know and bow hunting
I'm just saying you're hunting with guys
yes that you know have an ethical
responsibility understand the
environment you know and follow the
rules and
I think that you know yeah that's
amazing well it's also the thing to
consider is there's millions and in fact
billions of dollars every year that go
into wildlife habitat go into
preservation all the different people
that work as game wardens are all paid
by this and this is all money that's
taken from hunting licenses protect the
pikmin Robertson Act they take a certain
percentage of I think it's ten percent
of all the proceeds from ammunition
sales licenses equipment all that stuff
goes to preservation and it goes it
actually is the the number one the
source the number one source of for
economics and in terms of financial this
the like the the amount of resources
that go to managing these areas and
keeping these animals healthy and
monitoring them and monitoring their
populations and even reintroducing
different animals like Rocky Mountain
sheep but all these different animals
that elk that get introduced into all
these different places all that money
comes from hunting and it's it's crazy
to think that at one point in time most
of the animals in North America that we
hunt on a regular basis we're on the
verge of extinction including
white-tailed deer which is crazy to
think if you live in a craze that as
white-tailed deer because there's so
many of them it's insane but there's
more whitetail deer today than they were
when Columbus landed it's really really
weird yeah and this is an incredible
system the wildlife management system
that's in place in North America
including the management of public lands
and the access to public lands is a
truly special place it's it's it's truly
special here in North America and that
is because of the people that love
hunting and love these wild areas yeah
it makes sense I mean I love it the
sustainability factors everything and I
mean I think that's also why the catch
for at least thing I mean if everybody
kept everything that they caught there's
just not enough right like in that
environment no I understand you know and
people say that about hunting too that
if everybody went out and hunted you
would you do what there wouldn't be
animals left which is really true so but
every
not gonna do it that's like saying if
everybody became a marathon runner the
streets would be filled yeah but then
you're not gonna yeah that's not
appealing did a lot of people you know
everyone's not gonna do and it's very
difficult and especially this stuff that
I like to do it's just very day you can
do it
yeah a lot of people do it but not
nearly as many as go to the supermarket
yeah yeah when you get your meat do you
have a specific rancher that you use or
no it's a great question and it's you
know everything is a process and it's
part of the process they're just kind of
like aging the meat and then putting on
the plate but there's a whole backstory
to this I've developed a relationship
one of my closest friends and my mentor
and beef is this guy by the name of John
tarp wolf and you know he's he picks out
the cattle and and then it goes through
the system and you know they audit the
system and he I knew him before he came
on board with Neyman ranch so I knew him
when he had his own slaughterhouse in in
Granite City Illinois and I met him
through the guys from master purveyors
and then he became I guess the vp of
beef in Neyman ranch and so I invest
most of my focus with him and he's
taught me so he's picking out a lot of
my cattle and that gets since it's done
through family farms all antibiotic-free
steroid-free raised ethically animals
died with with dignity they're not like
cattle prodded and pushed along I mean
there's do they done well most of them
we'll all them it's this basically it's
like a like a pin you know it's like a
it's like a stun bolt and they're like
No Country for Old Men that thing
exactly yeah that's exactly how it's
done but it's done in a certain system
Temple Grandin transformed the entire
system of abbatoirs
in in this country she's you know about
Temple Grandin know she's such an
interesting woman autistic but she
actually is like the cattle whisperer
and she can go into the environment and
she can see just like a shadow of light
going onto the floor and
the Sun the cattle will see it they'll
stop and it builds all the stress and as
a result distress creates you know fear
and worry in the animal friend of light
it just can be something normal I mean
if they walk clockwise as opposed to
counterclockwise in the circle I mean
all these things have an impact she's
written several books on it they did a
whole series on her like a great movie I
think on HBO Claire Danes played our and
but she'll like literally crawl through
the abattoir before to understand all
the angles and advise you know so the
animals don't get super stressed a
stress animal has an impact on the
quality of the beef and also you know
you don't want to torture any
professional you know there's a
responsibility behind you know eating
meat I think so you know for me it
starts not only with the family farms
that they're raising the cattle the feed
that they're finishing the cattle on and
then how they're transported you know
and then how they go through the system
in terms of the abattoir storage and
then come to me I like to receive a
majority might be beef and combos which
means that never sees the inside of a
cryovac bag the plastic bags for me dry
aging that way is also it preserves a
lot of the natural good friendly
bacteria that's on the meat as opposed
to like putting in a bag and then they
put steam to like you know almost
sterilize the meat and they put it along
and so there's all these different
flavors that are gathered but I think
from like John Taub often diamond ranch
you know there really have been my go-to
nowadays but it's like John and his sons
you know they really have educated me on
beef and and and give me a lot of pride
in you know there was a genetic factor
for tenderness and beef I mean I didn't
realize this but you know it's not just
oh it that one's really nicely marbled
but it's not like you have to look at
the grain of the beef so like we you're
looking at the eye it's not only just
the fat it's like how the fat is
dispersed and and that has a huge impact
also on stress I mean you can look at a
piece of meat and they sometimes I'll
call it they'll be rejected we call the
dark cutter
the meet comes almost like dark deep
like almost like burgundy red and when
the animals like that the and I've
tasted it you know just because I was
curious but the quality of the beef is
just just because of stress
the adrenaline goes through the animal
it pains and that's what makes it dark
that's yesterday paints the meat but
what about grass-fed beef grass-fed beef
I don't you know it's it's a great
question you know for me I don't look at
grass-fed versus grain-fed I look at
nutrition okay
so just because something's grass-fed I
think sometimes the animals themselves
it's more stressful to eat grass that is
not nutrient rich so I believe in grass
fed with responsible grass farmers that
are then allowing the cattle you know to
do grass-fed right which I've
experienced over in in Ireland Scotland
and in in England is it's literally it's
about the nutrition so I mean you go out
and you say okay this animal is
grass-fed meat tastes to me is like this
meat is horrible as opposed to another
grass-fed and like this is great so it's
not like absolute so for me it's really
more about the nutrition like how
healthy can you maintain the animal I'm
not talking about like force feeding the
animal but I think the right the right
characteristics of beef that you and I
love really come from grain finished
beef as a mainstay but you can find some
grass-fed that's competitive with that
but it's it's hard to find the the
argument about grass-fed beef is
primarily a taste if you prefer it and I
do a lot of times but also a health that
it's healthier for you the the essential
fatty acids of a grass-fed cow are
different that's true but but again you
know it depends on how you look at stake
you know look if you're an everyday be
feed or you know I think that that that
conversation is completely valid but if
you're someone who looks at you know
steak as an extravagance or something
that is you know almost a celebration to
enjoy great you know grain finished beef
is
it's like butter I mean there's no taste
itself it's deep its rich remember we
were talking earlier about like Wagyu
cattle or you know it's everything has
its place mm-hmm but you know for that
Steakhouse experience I would never want
a grass-fed steak for like that broiler
steak which is cooked on it like that
for me it's like a really treat it's a
real treat it's it's something like you
can't get like I like Black Angus or
Angus Hereford cross that's the that's
the cattle that for me brings Americana
on the plate yeah Bourdain felt the same
way he was not interested in grass-fed
beef yeah the same way I am yeah there's
different levels of grass-fed I mean
I've had grass-fed and again it could
rival any grain fed it's like over in
Scotland and Ireland I mean look at
their grass it's so nutrient trending
over here it's a different story
especially here right because it's dry
and then I got enough water over there
it's raining every day rainy it's green
it's it's constantly they're growing
their own their substitute you know they
supplement barley that they grow on the
estate you know the whole thing is just
it works so like this whole concept of
like saying grass-fed versus grain-fed I
think that there's there's another story
and that for me is really the nutrition
of the animal but I do agree with you
there there is the concept of you know
health and nutrition that you'll you'll
find higher you know
heart rates of that but I'm not a
nutritionist at the end of the day so
you know are you aware the carnivore
diet I am yeah have you ever messed
around with that yeah so often do you
eat meat yourself well I taste it every
day but to sit down and have a steak
it's it's a rarity but I eat a lot of
red meat like I eat quite often so you
don't sit down and have a steak very
often I can't I can't I can't do it he
died because I tasted all the time so
like to sit there and eat a whole steak
I mean I I might need to have a steak
you know it's just I have that flavor
it's like it's a whole for a whole month
I did it for the month of January there
about world carnivore month it's I eat
mostly rib eyes and elk steak and
what did do to your mind I think I've
got more aggressive huh and I'm I'm kind
of joking about that and maybe gave me
more energy I don't know it's different
something happens it makes sense to me
that if you're a cow you don't need to
be aggressive because you're basically
just eating grass and and and chilling
most of time
however there's bulls bulls are very
aggressive but I don't know if my
analogy makes sense but if you eat meat
and only meat I really feel like there's
some kind of a shift that happens with I
mean virtually no carbohydrates and I
might have had like a couple of pieces
of chili mango and I think I had a few
olives or something like that for the
whole month right and I felt great you
would think you would feel like shit
yeah I did not feel like shit at all I
felt really good and I had incredible
energy but I got bored yeah I can't
bored I want to eat other things but
there's in you know here we are it's May
and that's a few months ago but I think
sometimes like hmm maybe I should get
back to that I mean it was only five
months ago right but I lost a lot of
weight I got down too and that's the
other thing too I wonder like one of the
whether or not howleen I would get or
whether or not that would level off but
I wound up I think I wound up losing 12
pounds or somewhere somewhere in that
range yeah
is that a lot water water weight though
now I'm imagine so yeah because in
general use you depleting your glycogen
stores you know so at the end of the day
you know you're just like yeah thirsty
for that and you're in your cells you
know but it didn't really fuck with my
workout so you know I thought I worried
about that that it was gonna mess up my
workouts but I had good energy but again
I only did it for a month I've had
friends my friend Trevor did it for I
think he said he did it for six months
but after a while he felt like he was
dropping off but then I know people that
have been doing it for years and they
feel great I leaned towards that I can't
do it like us as a strict
you know regiment you know but have you
ever tried to do it as a trick imagine
when you say you can't do it as a strict
regiment I have you know I have but not
when I have the restaurant in operation
because you know I'm sitting there and
you know I'm tasting everything you know
making sure everything's right and
includes like a posture so I should just
be like a bite and just messes with you
oh yeah yeah the the greatest thing in
the world to me is intermittent fasting
you know for me is like you know not eat
you know from that period of time and
you know start eating it like four
o'clock in the afternoon and that for me
has always been like a godsend that just
that works yeah that makes a big impact
and especially for people that are
struggling with their weight yeah you
you know it's so easy to just shove
things in your face it's so easy just to
continue to eat when you're really not
even hungry anymore they're bored like
for me the struggle is late at night you
know when I come home late at night
especially when I was coming home from
the comedy store I just want to fucking
eat you know I'd want to eat chips yeah
or I want to eat some bullshit yeah it's
always bullshit we're tired too that's
always the food once you get sugar out
of your system you don't crave it but
once you eat a little bit of sugar then
it's you constantly craving yes yeah
it's that that diva that there's this
there's something evil about sugar it's
ridiculous it's so devilish there's
something about it but it's also so
great like how can they be having those
two things coexist this quick is like an
amazing like just ice cream with fudge
and some whipped cream it's so good
sometimes but then the feeling that I
have afterwards like you fucking dummy
why did you do this yourself a hundred
percent but I mean there's like a
feeling like when you take a spoon of
that budget goes through your whole body
I know your body so happy for that brief
period of time but then it's just a
trick because then you feel like you got
poisoned 100% I remember one time I was
eating real strict and then I decided to
go off the reservation for a day and I
had a cheeseburger with fries and a
giant shake a big chocolate shake and my
fucking head Hurley I had a lay on the
couch and my kids were asking me
questions I couldn't
I was like what do you I don't know what
Who am I where am I
it was like my head was in a vise it was
really it felt like I got drugged yeah I
was I had nothing because your body's
also super sensitive yes you know
because it wasn't eating like that yeah
yeah that's the dance between delicious
and nutritious like what is that how do
you how do you manage that dance how do
you navigate that dance I'm pretty
disciplined like you know I'll get into
I mean up into this like for the pest I
mean I was super into working out you
know daily and then I got so focused on
the restaurant you know it just looks
like I don't have time I've got to get
back to it because I felt so good and so
much energy but in terms of like the
dance for me I'm like just little
snippets of tasting good food like great
food like all day why are you cooking
while I'm cooking what is your day like
when you get there like that when do you
get there when do you leave well now
normally I'd get in at let's say
anywhere from 10 like 10 o'clock and
then could leave as late you know
typically like 10:30 11 so you guys have
a lunch crowd no it's not even no lunch
it's just preparation dinner why I've
barbecue for lunch and so that's good so
I would like sleep there overnight
get it going of this amazing chef Marcus
you said leave me there yeah you sleep
there because you know you know we're
talking about the temperatures and
everything so there's a certain time
when you need to wrap the beef for
example in in butcher paper that usually
happens or like 4:30 5:00 in the morning
and if you don't do it you know you
missed the window to do it so I don't
like to hold the meat too long so to get
the better quality you know you have to
write it a lot of people they'll just
make it earlier put it into the warmer
and it will hold but you know I think
that there's a huge difference so you
know we'll wrap it really really early
so that's that's usually what happens
so you where do you sleep
Wow yeah and you set the alarm for 4:30
and yeah yeah oh it's painful so you
want to be a chef yeah well that's it
you know there's the agony and the
ecstasy yeah you know that's it but my
usual routine like particularly now like
I'll get in by 10 o'clock I take a list
of what's you know going on like for
that day pack out meals whatever and
then I'm finished like 10 like 8 8 but
anywhere from between 8 to 10 that's a
long day it's a long day I'm feeling it
lately I mean all like the muscles in my
hands like I don't even know what's
going on that's why I say I have to
start training again because I'm like my
transitional movement is slow I'm like
an old man like I get out of bed I'm
like oh I make the noise like it's just
been terrible you know well I also
imagine this stress is not good for you
either and probably not good for your
sleep I've been compartmentalizing a lot
of what's going on right now you know
that's the only way I'm getting through
it you don't have to be strong for my
team I have to give really strong
leadership I need to inspire them just
do example that's the only way because a
lot of people they just want to take off
and they want to collect unemployment
you know yeah way it's working now it's
they make more money be on unemployment
than working it's crazy
so yeah so I have to lead from the front
first one in first one out and but I
compartmentalized so the stress is like
there I'm just again I'm focused like
okay I got to feed the hospital workers
I gotta feed the st. Joseph's and how
can I come up with something that the
neighborhood wants
I'd like to indulge on whether it's
meatloaf and peas and mashed potatoes or
it's fried chicken or it's you know
chicken with grains lemon and honey you
know something like that so well I can
only hope that this is over soon enough
and that things will bounce back not me
too
but you got an amazing restaurant it's
really great I love eating there and I
gratefully come back there again and I
really hope that it's a short amount of
time mean I don't know when and how I
don't know how it's gonna we're tough
restaurant people are tough oh you have
to be just the fucking hours that you
put in man do the best that we can
that's all he can do you know well
thanks brother thanks for being so much
hate you
and hopefully next time I see you is be
at your restaurant alright thank you bye
everybody
[Music]